ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The report was produced by the Management of Substance Abuse Unit (MSB) in
the Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse (MSD) of the World Health Organization (WHO), Geneva, Switzerland. The report was developed within the framework
of WHO's activities on global monitoring of alcohol consumption, alcohol-related harm
and policy responses, and is linked to WHO’s work on the Global Information System on
Alcohol and Health (GISAH).
Executive editors: Vladimir Poznyak and Dag Rekve.
Within the WHO Secretariat, Svetlana Akselrod, Assistant Director-General, Noncommunicable Diseases and Mental Health, and Shekhar Saxena, Director, Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, provided vision, guidance, support and valuable
contributions to this project.
The WHO staff involved in development and production of this report were: Alexandra
Fleischmann, Elise Gehring, Vladimir Poznyak, and Dag Rekve of the WHO MSD/MSB
unit at WHO headquarters in Geneva. The report benefited from technical inputs from
Dzmitry Krupchanka of WHO MSD/MSB. Jan-Christopher Gumm provided a significant
contribution to the production of the report in his capacity as a consultant. Gretchen
Stevens, Colin Mathers, Jessica Ho, and Annet Mahanani from the Department of
Information, Evidence and Research contributed to the estimates of alcohol-attributable
disease burden and provided technical input at all stages of the report’s development.
Margie Peden and Tami Toroyan from the Department of Management of NCDs, Disability, Violence & Injury Prevention provided technical input to the report at different stages of
its development. Leanne Riley, Regina Guthold and Melanie Cowan from the Department of Prevention of Noncommunicable Diseases provided data from the WHO-supported
surveys and technical input to the report. Kathryn O’Neill, Philippe Boucher, Zoe Brillantes, John Rawlinson, and Florence Rusciano from the Department of Information, Evidence
and Research were the technical counterparts from the Global Health Observatory for
creating maps and for updating GISAH.
Preparation of this report is a collaborative effort of the WHO Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, Management of Substance Abuse, with the Centre for Addiction
and Mental Health (CAMH), Toronto, Canada. The contributions from Jürgen Rehm, Kevin Shield, Jakob Manthey, and Margaret Rylett (CAMH, Canada) as well as from Gerhard
Gmel (Alcohol Treatment Center, Lausanne University Hospital, Switzerland), David Jernigan and Pamela Trangenstein (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health,
USA), and Robin Room

The collection of data in the framework of the WHO Global Survey on Alcohol and Health
and the development of this report were undertaken in collaboration with the six WHO
regional offices and WHO country offices. Key contributors to the report in the WHO
regional offices were:
WHO African Region:
Sebastiana Nkomo, Nivo Ramanandraibe, and Steven Shongwe
WHO Region of the Americas:
Maristela Goldnadel Monteiro, Blake Andrea Smith, and Lalla Maiga
WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region:
Khalid Saeed
WHO European Region:
Carina Ferreira-Borges, Lars Møller, Nina Blinkenberg, Julie Brummer, and Lisa Scholin
WHO South-East Asia Region:
Nazneen Anwar
WHO Western Pacific Region:
Martin Vandendyck, Xiangdong Wang and Maribel Villanueva.
For their contributions to individual chapters and annexes we acknowledge the following:
Executive summary: David Bramley and Vladimir Poznyak.
Chapter 1: Robin Room, Kevin Shield.
Chapter 2: Dag Rekve, Alexandra Fleischmann, Robin Room, Vladimir Poznyak.
Chapter 3: Gerhard Gmel, Kevin Shield, Jürgen Rehm, Margaret Rylett, Aya Kinjo.
Chapter 4: Kevin Shield, Jürgen Rehm, Gretchen Stevens.
Chapter 5: David Jernigan and Pamela Trangenstein.
Chapter 6: Robin Room, David Jernigan, Pamela Trangenstein, Dag Rekve, Vladimir Poznyak.
Country profiles: Margaret Rylett and Alexandra Fleischmann.
Appendices i–iii: Margaret Rylett and Alexandra Fleischmann.
Appendix iv: Margaret Rylett and Alexandra Fleischmann.
This report would not have been possible without contributions from the WHO national
counterparts for implementation of the Global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol
in WHO Member States who provided country-level data and other relevant information
on alcohol consumption, alcohol-related harm and policy responses.
The report benefited from the input provided by the following peer reviewers:
Chapter 1: Charles Parry (South Africa).
Chapter 2: Charles Parry (South Africa), Sally Casswell (New Zealand).
Chapters 3–4: Isidore S. Obot (Nigeria).
Chapter 5: Sally Casswell (New Zealand), Isidore S. Obot (Nigeria).
Chapter 6: Sally Casswell (New Zealand).
David Bramley (Switzerland) edited the report.
L’IV Com Sàrl (Switzerland) developed the graphic design and layout.
Administrative support was provided by Divina Maramba.
WHO interns who contributed to the report include: Ioanna Antzoulatou, Kathryn Elliot,
Tatiana Fomina, Anna Fruehauf, Eloise Harrison, Aceel Hawa, Preeti Khanal, Shaista Madad, Mariam Mujiri, Andres Rodriguez, Zsofia Szlamka.
Finally, WHO gratefully acknowledges the financial support